add guide to writing tutorials (#311)
NixOS/nix.dev: source/contributing/writing-a-tutorial.md

We strongly recommend the book [How Learning Works (summary)](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/mAdMkFqWzbJRB544m/book-review-how-learning-works) as a guide for designing learning materials.

## Target audience

The main target audience of Nix tutorials are software developers with at least basic experience on the Linux command line.

Experts answering questions immediately, personalised instructions and training, and other forms of apprenticeship are known to be the most effective support for learning Nix.
**These tutorials are targeted at those who don't have access to any of that**, and should therefore be written to be suitable for self-directed learning.
This is achieved by following the structure outlined here, which is primarily characterised by aiming to avoid and close all information gaps for the learner.

As a byproduct, a well-written tutorial will be useful as lecture notes for use in interactive training sessions.
Therefore, the secondary target audience are instructors teaching Nix.

## Structure

Each tutorial should have the following structure:

### What will you learn?

Describe the problem statement and learning goals.

> The learning goal of a tutorial is always a skill, which is distinguished by being applicable to a set of situations with recurrent patterns.

Author: ```suggestion
The learning goal of a tutorial is always a skill, which is distinguished by being applicable to a variety of situations that share recurrent patterns.
```

### What do you need?

State the prerequisite knowledge and skills.
The tutorial should always be written such that the stated prerequisites are sufficient to achieve learning goals.

Examples:

- links to previous chapters
- domain-specific skills or knowledge

> 

Author: That should be entirely obsolete with Nix. I mean, sure, you need some sort of OS and a text editor, but since our target audience is more software developer than computer-illiterate (which is in itself a very important audience that is severely underserved!) we may leave that implied.

### How long does it take?

Estimate the reading time.
This is important for learners to make sure they have the capacity to achieve the planned tasks and thus avoid amounts frustration that will prevent them from continuing on their journey into the Nix ecosystem.

The estimate will depend on the learner's pre-existing knowledge and proficiency.
You can note how optional skills or knowledge may influence reading time.

We recommend testing your tutorial with friends or coworkers.
This will both help with revealing implicit prerequisites as well as provide a realistic estimate of the reading time.

### Tutorial

Provide steps to achieve the learning goal.

Depending on how well a use case is supported, these may be

- instructions and examples
- links to known-good external resources, with summaries
- overview of available tools, and their state of maturity and maintenance
- overview of ideas, and state of community discussion.

> It is also worthwhile to add contextual explanations within `<details>` tags

Author: ```suggestion
It is also worthwhile to add contextual explanations within `<details>` tags.
```

> This can help with understanding while keeping distractions minimal.

Reviewer: I think there's a place for admonishments here ("Note:", "Warning:", etc) and those can be inserted either as HTML snippets or via some kind of markdown extension like Nixpkgs markdown.

Author: Sphinx has this with  ```:::{note}```. Admonitions are a fairly superficial feature IMO. But we should make a more prominent reference to Sphinx/MyST so people can figure out the details easier.

### What did you learn?

Provide exercises or worked examples, and offer means of self-assessment.

This is also a good place to offer the readers ways to give feedback or ask the authors questions in order to continue improving the tutorial.

### Next steps

Depending on how well a use case is explored, point the reader to

- reference manuals
- other chapters
- ongoing community discussion
- additional resources

We recommend making an explicit separation of practical from theoretical learning resources, as then readers will be able to quickly decide to either get things done or learn more.

External resources should have a summary to set expectations, ideally including reading time.

> Blog posts should have their original title in the link, and `(<author>, <year>)`: give authors credit, give readers an idea of how up to date the information is.

Author: ```suggestion
Blog posts should have their original title in the link, and `(<author>, <year>)`: give authors credit, give readers an idea of how up-to-date the information is.
```

> Blog posts should have their original title in the link, and `(<author>, <year>)`: give authors credit, give readers an idea of how up-to-date the information is.

Reviewer: Should we also list the tutorial's author? Maybe as "original author" since it's likely to be edited and maintained by others over time?

Author: Good point. I think yes, but we haven't discussed this. We should do this in a follow-up.
